---
layout: blog
title: Interludio
summary: Crisis en islandia y los medios alternativos
---
Estaba leyendo [esta nota](http://rabble.ca/blogs/bloggers/ethan-cox/2013/03/interviewed-icelandic-activist-who-took-down-his-government) sobre el movimiento activista en los últimos años en islandoa y me llamó la atención en particular cómo termina **spoiler alert**.


> **HT**: [Laughs] It’s exactly the same! Money and political parties control the media, and they don’t want people to protest. They work against us [to maintain their power]. I don’t trust the media. I remember the first time when I stood in front of parliament, I was looking for young people who were good with computers, because that’s our media now, Facebook and so on. I found them on the third day and asked them to help me, and they said yes. That really was the catalyst that reached thousands of supporters through social media and emails.  
> 
> **rabble**: So you did all this by going around mainstream media? Did the movement ever get a lot of coverage from the mainstream media?
> 
> **HT**: No, they tried to silence us. If they ever talked about me it was so negative, but you try not to listen to things like that.
> 
> **rabble**: Anything else you would like to add?
> 
> **HT**: The message is that you spread your word through non-traditional media formats; Out of this revolution we had all sorts of people fighting to get back their homes [which had been foreclosed upon]. We managed to elect people into parliament who are now fighting to make a change. Birgitta Jónsdóttir has been especially active as a member of parliament. She managed to pass a bill, based on an idea we call ‘immi’. The bill provides protection for whistleblowers and a place to publish the information they have found out.

Sin embargo los medios tradicionales hace tiempo están incurriendo en los medios alternativos. Y no de manera evidente como generadores de opinión. Siempre alrededor del conflicto, de la disputa. Con argumentos tautológicos (en el mejor de los casos) que no se aferran de nada en concreto, y falaces en otros casos. Con la inocencia de un grupo en facebook (de los que hay tantos)...

¡Atenti! ¡Somos en parte lo que consumimos y qué generamos con ello!

